These are some tools to make moving file into /opt convenient for
Debian packages.  This is useful on Maemo 5 since /opt is on a
different partition than / and has much more space.

* Overview

** maemo-optify

The maemo-optify tool works on a Debian package in unpacked form.
This is a directory as it is created by debian/rules just before
calling dpkg-deb.  It will move selected files to /opt/maemo/ and
replace the originals with symbol links to the new location.  You can
call it from debian/rules right before dh_builddep, for example.

** maemo-optify-deb

The maemo-optify-deb tool works on a Debian package itself.  It will
unpack it, maybe run maemo-optify, and pack it up again.

When passing the --auto option, maemo-optify-deb will read some
configuration information from a freshly built source package in front
of it and will perform the requested optifications.  See below for how
to control this.

* Optification from debian/rules

You can put a call to "maemo-optify" into debian/rules, immediately
after dh_gencontrol or equivalent, like this:

    maemo-optify PACKAGE DIR

where PACKAGE is the name of the binary package that you want to
optify, and DIR is the directory with the files of the package.  If
you omit DIR, it defaults to "debian/PACKAGE".  (The name of the
package is needed for the heuristics that maemo-optify performs.)

If you omit PACKAGE as well, maemo-optify will work on all packages
that are listed in debian/control.

* Optification of .deb files

Optification of an existing .deb archive file is as simple as

    $ fakeroot maemo-optify-deb package.deb

This will modify package.deb in place.  (The fakeroot is there to make
sure that the files keep their original permissions and ownership
information.)

* Control

You can control the tools with the "debian/optify" file in your source
package.  Right now, it can only contain a single word that determines
the "mode" for 'maemo-optify-deb --auto'.  The mode can be one of the
following:

 - none
 
 No optification is done.
 
 - all

 All packages listed in debian/files are optified.

 - auto

 Some of the packages listed in debian/files are optified, based on
 some heuristic.  The heuristic is designed to make "auto" a useful
 default mode that works with almost all packages.

When in "auto" mode, maemo-optify-deb will investigate each package to
decide whether to optify it or not.  Right now, a package is not
optified in this case when it already contains the "/opt" directory,
or when it looks like it might be a Python package.

When debian/optify does not exist, the default mode is taken from the
MAEMO_OPTIFY_DEFAULT_MODE environment variable.  When that variable is
not set either, the mode is "none".

Maemo-optify has a heuristic for selecting which files to move.  By
default, it will never move files that are less than 2kb and it will
only move directories that have the same name as the package.  In the
future, this might be controllable from debian/<package>.optify files.


TODO

- Read debian/<package>.optify in maemo-optify and get things like
  threshold and whitelists / blacklists from it.

- Add option to maemo-optify for the package name so that it doesn't
  need to be guessed from the directory.

- Make maemo-optify-deb robust and give it an option to not overwrite
  the package in place.
